feat(changelog): instances-added-openssh-server-is-now-enabled-on-window 2025-02-04 (#4350)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/instances/how-to/enable-openssh-windows.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to enable the OpenSSH server on Windows 2022 Instances
  description: This page explains how to enable the OpenSSH serveron Windows 2022 Instances
content:
  h1: How to enable the OpenSSH serveron Windows 2022 Instances

>   paragraph: This page explains how to enable the OpenSSH serveron Windows 2022 Instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page explains how to enable the OpenSSH server on Windows 2022 Instances
```

tags: windows2022 openssh
dates:
  validation: 2025-02-04
  posted: 2025-02-04
categories:
  - instances
  - compute
---

The latest release of **Windows Server 2022** and **Windows Server 2022 Core** images includes the **OpenSSH Server** and **OpenSSH Client** packages by default.

<Message type="tip">
- The **OpenSSH Server** is installed but **disabled by default** for security reasons.
- To enable it at Instance creation, add the tag `with-ssh` when launching your Instance.
</Message>

## Enabling OpenSSH at Instance creation

Use the following CLI command to create a new Instance with OpenSSH Server enabled:

```sh
scw instance server create name=win2k22-core image=windows-server-2022-core tags.0=with-ssh type=POP2-2C-8G-WIN admin-password-encryption-ssh-key-id={ssh_key_id}
```

## Enabling OpenSSH on an existing Instance

If your Instance was started **without** the `with-ssh` tag, you can enable OpenSSH manually by running the following PowerShell command:

```powershell
Start-Service sshd
```

> Once started, load your SSH keys configured in your project using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once started, load the SSH keys configured in your Project using the following command:
```
